# Module 3 - Lab 1 - Exercise 2 - Mitigate threats using Microsoft Defender for Cloud

## Lab scenario

You're a Security Operations Analyst working at a company that implemented Microsoft Defender for Cloud. You need to respond to security alerts generated by Microsoft Defender for Cloud.

## Estimated timing: 40 minutes

### Task 1: Explore Regulatory Compliance

In this task, you will load sample security alerts and review the alert details.  

1. Login to WIN1 virtual machine with the password as provided in the environment tab.

1. In the Edge browser, open the Azure portal at (https://portal.azure.com).

1. In the **Sign in** dialog box, copy and paste Email/Username: <inject key="AzureAdUserEmail"></inject> and then select Next.

1. In the **Enter password** dialog box, copy and paste Password: <inject key="AzureAdUserPassword"></inject> and then select **Sign in**.

1. In the Search bar of the Azure portal, type *Defender*, then select **Microsoft Defender for Cloud**.

1. Under *Cloud Security*, select **Regulatory compliance** in the portal menu.

1. Select **Managed compliance policies** on the toolbar.

1. Select your subscription.

1. On the left menu Under *Policy settings*, select **Security policy** in the portal menu.

1. Review the "Industry & regulatory standards" available to you by default.

1. Select Microsoft Defender for Cloud below the search box to return to the main blade.


### Task 2: Explore Security posture and recommendations

In this task, you will review cloud security posture management. The Secure Score information can take 24 hours to recalculate.  It is beneficial to do this task again in 24 hours.

1. On the left menu Under *Cloud Security*, select **Security posture** in the portal menu.

1. The Secure score most likely will show *N/A* until the score is calculated.

1. Under *General*, select **Recommendations** in the portal menu.

1. Explore Recommendations provided (after 24 hours).


### Task 3: Mitigate security alerts

In this task, you will load sample security alerts and review the alert details.

1. Under *General*, select **Security alerts** in the portal menu.

1. Select **Sample alerts** from the command bar. **Hint:** you may need to select the ellipsis (...) button from the command bar).

1. In the **Create sample alerts (Preview)** pane make sure your subscription is selected and that all sample alerts are selected in the *Defender for Cloud plans* area.

1. Select **Create sample alerts**.  

    >**Note:** This sample alert creation process may take a few minutes to complete, wait for the "Successfully created sample alerts" notification. Once complete each of the alerts should appear in the *Security alerts* area.

1. For the alerts that grabbed your attention, perform the following actions:

    - Select any one alert from the list , information about the alert should appear. Select **View full details**.

    - Review and read the **Alert details** tab.

    - Select the **Take action** tab or select the **Next: Take Action** button at the end of the page.

    - Review the *Take action* information. Notice the sections available to take action depending on the type of alert: Inspect resource context, Mitigate the threat, Prevent future attacks, Trigger automated response and Suppress similar alerts.

## Review

In this module you have set up an on premise server and checked for security alerts


> **Congratulations** on completing the task! Now, it's time to validate it. Here are the steps:

- Navigate to the Lab Validation Page, from the upper right corner in the lab guide section.
- Hit the Validate button for the corresponding task. If you receive a success message, you can proceed to the next task. 
- If not, carefully read the error message and retry the step, following the instructions in the lab guide.
- If you need any assistance, please contact us at labs-support@spektrasystems.com. We are available 24/7 to help you out.

 ## You have completed the lab. 
